[Amit Varma]: I had a strange dream the other day. I dreamed that I was in heaven. In fact, I'd been in
[Amit Varma]: heaven for a week by then. Every day, I would get up in the morning, eat lots of bacon and
[Amit Varma]: be bathed by voluptuous woman wearing aromatic perfumes and little else. Whatever music I
[Amit Varma]: felt like listening to would be playing in the background. Even before I knew that I
[Amit Varma]: felt like listening to it. And now, random autograph hunters would keep accosting me,
[Amit Varma]: touching my feet, taking my autograph and telling me what a great podcast the seen and
[Amit Varma]: the unseen was. But on this particular day, something bad happened. I asked this attendant
[Amit Varma]: of mine in silk harem pants for my usual mid-morning snack of a seafood platter. And he said that
[Amit Varma]: there would be no more seafood platters in heaven. I was shocked by this. He said it
[Amit Varma]: was the order of the canteen manager, St. Peter. So I headed over to the canteen and
[Amit Varma]: I met St. Peter. And I demanded to know why there were to be no more seafood platters.
[Amit Varma]: St. Peter replied, Amit, Sai, what can I tell you? Life is hard. We have been hit with GST.
[Amit Varma]: I've been told there's a 5% GST on prawns, 2.3% on fish, unless it is fish with skin
[Amit Varma]: on it, which is 3.9%, unless it is batter fried, in which case it is 19.2%. And there's
[Amit Varma]: a 14% GST on squid and a 44% tax on octopus because of all the hands. It's driving me
[Amit Varma]: nuts. There is no way I can comply. So no more seafood platters from today. But this
[Amit Varma]: is crazy, I said. Why are you even charging GST? This is heaven. Who takes GST from you?
[Amit Varma]: He looked at me sadly. The devil does, he said. The devil runs everything, bro. And
[Amit Varma]: soon he will turn heaven into hell.
[Unknown]: Welcome to The Scene and The Unseen, our weekly podcast on economics, politics and behavioral
[Amit Varma]: science. Please welcome your host, Amit Bharma.
[Amit Varma]: Welcome to The Scene and The Unseen. Our topic for today is GST, the goods and services tax.
[Amit Varma]: Now, there was an episode of The Scene and The Unseen on this a few months ago with Devangshu
[Amit Varma]: Dutta before the GST had come into being. While the GST has an awesome intention and
[Amit Varma]: I support it in theory, there were a lot of practical issues with how it was being implemented.
[Amit Varma]: Devangshu feared at the time that there were going to be too many slabs and exemptions,
[Amit Varma]: which would make compliance impossible and unleash an Inspector Raj on businesses. Anyway,
[Amit Varma]: I have with me in the studio today, a good friend of mine, the journalist Vivek Kaul,
[Amit Varma]: who has been writing about GST a lot since it's been implemented. Vivek, welcome to the
[Amit Varma]: show.
[Amit Varma]: Thanks for having me, Amit.
[Amit Varma]: Vivek, a few months back in January, I had done an episode of The Scene and The Unseen
[Amit Varma]: with Devangshu Dutta on GST. And GST hadn't come into force then nevertheless, but we
[Amit Varma]: discussed among other things, the intention of GST, which we expected to be the scene
[Amit Varma]: effect, which is of course, that it rationalizes all the various different taxes and it vastly
[Amit Varma]: simplifies taxation and in that sense is...
[Amit Varma]: On a theoretical level.
[Amit Varma]: On a theoretical level. And on a practical level, we discussed the possible unintended
[Amit Varma]: consequences and Devangshu warned that if there were too many slabs and exemptions,
[Amit Varma]: it would in fact defeat the purpose, make compliance difficult, if not impossible, and
[Amit Varma]: perhaps even increase the amount of red tape instead of decreasing it. Now, all these months
[Amit Varma]: later, GST is finally in action. You and I both have our GST numbers, we file taxes,
[Amit Varma]: we're looking at what's happening around us, and you've been writing a bit about it. So,
[Amit Varma]: can you tell me what your thoughts are about GST now, given, you know, the positive intent,
[Amit Varma]: some of which is no doubt manifesting, and also the unseen effects?
[Guest]: Right. So that's like, you know, one question which takes care of the entire show.
[Amit Varma]: Yeah, I'll just shut up now.
[Guest]: So I mean, as I mean, as you rightly said, and as Devangshu would have also said on the
[Guest]: show, is that GST subsumes a lot of indirect taxes. So I mean, if I think Prime Minister
[Guest]: Narendra Modi made a reference to this as well, wherein he said around 17 indirect taxes
[Guest]: and 23 different cesses are subsumed under it. So prima facie, you know, if you look
[Guest]: at just this fact, you cannot be against the idea of a goods and services tax. Having said
[Guest]: that, I mean, there are many other points which need to be discussed. The first point
[Guest]: as I mean, again, you rightly said is the number of different rates under GST. So we
[Guest]: have 0%, 0.25%, 3%, 5%, 12%, 18%, 29%, and 29% plus different cesses. So we have close
[Guest]: to, I mean, 8 rates. I mean, it's more than 8 if you look at the various combinations
[Guest]: of 28% plus cess, right. So this obviously leads to a situation where, you know, the
[Guest]: system that evolves tends to become extremely complicated and convoluted. So, you know,
[Guest]: if you were to sort of look at it in a very simplistic way, there is something that Veerappa
[Guest]: Moily said in his speech in the parliament wherein he asked, is KitKat chocolate or is
[Guest]: it a biscuit? Or what we call in India, biscuit. So that's a very simple example. After the
[Guest]: implementation of GST, some of the examples that have come out are very, very interesting.
[Guest]: So it seems some of the retailers are selling, you know, one shoe at a time because then
[Guest]: the rate of GST becomes lower. Like, I think the rate of GST goes up at 800 rupees. So
[Guest]: if it's a 1000 rupee shoe, it makes sense for them to sell each shoe for 500 each. Right.
[Guest]: So this is, you know, the brilliant Indian jugaad at work. And then there have also been
[Guest]: stories about how, you know, if a woman goes and buys a salwa kameez, the dupatta is being
[Guest]: built separately and I mean, you know, stuff like that. So yes, so I mean, so there are
[Guest]: issues which multiple levels of tax create and these issues need to be, you know, handled.
[Guest]: I mean, and the simplest way of handling them is to not have multiple issues, multiple levels
[Guest]: of tax. So that is the first and foremost thing, you know, that is happening on the
[Guest]: unseen side. Then, you know, the more important issue, which I think is not being discussed
[Guest]: at all is the impact on the informal economy. I mean, informal economy is basically, you
[Guest]: know, industry which essentially operates outside the rules and regulations of the government
[Guest]: and given that the government is not able to collect any tax from them. Now, so the
[Guest]: hope is that the GST will lead to a reduction of this informal economy and that will be
[Guest]: beneficial for the government. Again, you know, if you were to look at it in a very
[Guest]: straightforward, simplistic way, this makes immense sense. I mean, why should firms not
[Guest]: pay tax, right? Why should some firms not pay tax when others are? But that's a very
[Guest]: simplistic way of looking at it. Now, why do I say that is primarily because, you know,
[Guest]: the kind of analysis that has been put forward in the media is that once GST comes into force,
[Guest]: all these informal firms will be forced to become formal firms and that will be good
[Guest]: for the economy because, you know, the tax collected by the government will go up and
[Guest]: then the government can do other things which it doesn't have money for right now.
[Guest]: The point is that, you know, such transitions never happen smoothly. Now, a good example
[Guest]: that I can think of right now is, you know, in the late 80s and the early 90s, the computerization
[Guest]: drive in the government and the public sector banks started and that did not happen overnight.
[Guest]: I mean, there was a huge resistance to it. So, the point I'm trying to make is that,
[Guest]: you know, such disruptions do not work very, very smoothly.
[Amit Varma]: I'll just make a mild tangent here and I'm sure you'll agree with me on this, is that
[Amit Varma]: even during demonetization, they claim that, okay, you know, getting rid of the informal
[Amit Varma]: sector and making it formal is a big game and so on and so forth. And people often use
[Amit Varma]: the term informal sector as if it is prima facie something bad.
[Guest]: I find it very surprising. I mean, it is not derogatory. You know, everybody has the right
[Guest]: to make a living. Exactly. I mean, if there are no jobs going around, I have the right
[Guest]: to make a living. And that means, you know, I start a tea stall on the road and, you know,
[Amit Varma]: sell tea.
[Amit Varma]: Exactly. And a lot of the informal sector actually exists, is forced to exist because
[Amit Varma]: of bad laws and regulations, like all the labor laws by the government itself. It's
[Amit Varma]: the government's fault, not the informal sector's fault necessarily. And you used to phrase
[Amit Varma]: a little while back, which again struck a chord, where you said that, you know, if the
[Amit Varma]: informal sector comes into the tax net, it's beneficial for the government, quote unquote.
[Amit Varma]: But in my mind, what is beneficial for the government is not necessarily always beneficial
[Amit Varma]: for the country.
[Guest]: No, which is fair. So, the point I was trying to make is that that is the logic being offered.
[Guest]: So, to come back, you know, to try and answer this question in a little more detail. Now,
[Guest]: there are essentially two features at the heart of the GST. I mean, they're basically,
[Guest]: you know, two ends of the same spectrum. But, you know, explaining the entire concept would
[Guest]: be a little easier if we considered them to be two separate features. One is the idea
[Guest]: of input tax credit, and the other is the self-policing feature that is built into the
[Guest]: GST. They're basically, you know, two sides of the same coin. So, what happens is, let's
[Guest]: say you are a manufacturer, you are a car manufacturer. Now, you need multiple inputs
[Guest]: in order to manufacture that car, you cannot manufacture everything yourself. So, let's
[Guest]: say you buy steering from someone, you buy seats from someone else, you buy tires from
[Guest]: a third guy, and so on and so forth. You may even buy engines from someone else, for that
[Guest]: matter. Now, what used to happen in the pre-GST era is that when you bought those inputs,
[Guest]: you were paying a price in which the tax already paid on those inputs was built into the price.
[Guest]: So, it was like a double tax because then you...
[Guest]: So, now, when you paid tax, you were not allowed to take credit for the tax that had already
[Guest]: been paid on the inputs you were using to manufacture your product, in this case, which
[Guest]: happens to be a car. So, what that did was that ultimately when the consumer paid the
[Guest]: final price for a car, he was also paying tax on tax or what we call the cascading effect,
[Guest]: and he ended up paying a lot more than he should have. Now, in the post-GST era, what
[Guest]: will happen is that the car manufacturer can take an input tax credit for all the GST that
[Guest]: has been paid on the inputs that he has used in the manufacturing of the car. So, to that
[Guest]: extent, you know, prices will come down because there will no longer be any tax on tax. So,
[Guest]: the cascading effect, you know, goes out of the window.
[Guest]: Now, this is, and this is if you, you know, if you follow the news, if you follow the
[Guest]: news lately, most of the car and bike manufacturers have cut prices. So, this is the ideal example
[Guest]: of how, you know, GST works well for the society as a whole, wherein the total amount, the
[Amit Varma]: price paid for a product actually came down.
[Amit Varma]: Absolutely. It's a dream theoretical example.
[Guest]: It's a very good example. And this is, in fact, if you look at, you know, everyone who's
[Guest]: been talking in support of GST, this is the example they end up offering. I mean, nobody
[Guest]: talks about the fact that, you know, if you go to a restaurant, what they've simply done
[Guest]: is that they have added GST on top of their prices. Now, what they should have ideally
[Guest]: done is they should have subtracted the taxes that they used to pay on those prices, and
[Guest]: then added GST onto it. Nobody's done that. I mean, they've just taken the latest prices
[Amit Varma]: and added GST onto it.
[Guest]: Which in a sense is the simplest way out of the moment.
[Guest]: You don't expect a normal small restaurant guy to sort of, you know, calculate.
[Guest]: But then that is also, I mean, how many times do you buy a new car and how many times do
[Guest]: you go to a restaurant? So, that is something that one needs to...
[Amit Varma]: I buy three cars a day and I don't eat too much.
[Guest]: I mean, that means you have a lot of money. Why are you doing this podcast?
[Guest]: So the guy taking the input tax credit has to essentially ensure that all, you know,
[Guest]: his entire supply chain or value chain or whatever you might call it, is registered
[Guest]: under the goods and services tax, which means they have a goods and services tax identification
[Guest]: number, which is, you know, GSTIN.
[Guest]: Which makes the whole process smooth.
[Guest]: And they need to have invoices from all of them. Now, what that does is that everyone
[Guest]: is on the radar of the government.
[Guest]: And the moment that chain breaks, you know that someone somewhere is not paying tax.
[Guest]: So that is the self-policing feature which is built into the GST.
[Guest]: So anyone who wants to take the input tax credit has to ensure that everyone down the
[Guest]: line is also on the GST.
[Guest]: So the idea here is that the moment a firm operating in the informal economy comes into
[Guest]: such a supply chain or a value chain, they will have to go formal.
[Guest]: Because otherwise, they will no longer get the business that they used to.
[Guest]: Now, this is a very, it's an extremely simplistic way of looking at it because, you know, a
[Guest]: firm which is operating in the informal economy just doesn't do it because it doesn't want
[Amit Varma]: to pay tax.
[Guest]: Is there for a reason beyond just wanting to pay tax?
[Guest]: Just not wanting to pay.
[Guest]: It is also there because there are so many rules and regulations that need to be followed
[Guest]: that if they become a part of the formal economy, it would just not be viable for them to be
[Amit Varma]: in that business.
[Amit Varma]: On the margins, they might have to shut down and therefore the implications of going formal
[Guest]: are existential.
[Guest]: Exactly.
[Guest]: So there was this, you know, very important piece of fact that was highlighted in the
[Guest]: National Manufacturing Policy of 2011, which is ultimately what became Make in India, that
[Guest]: an average manufacturing firm has to follow around 70 rules and regulations and needs
[Guest]: to file around 100 returns a year.
[Guest]: So a firm which is not a part of the formal economy, it's not just about, you know, not
[Guest]: wanting to pay tax.
[Guest]: So what happens now, you know, that GST is in place.
[Guest]: So such a firm may or may not want to go formal.
[Guest]: Let's say it decides, you know, it doesn't go formal and it decides to shut down.
[Guest]: So the first thing that happens is there are job losses.
[Guest]: So it needs to be highlighted here that, you know, we really don't know how big our informal
[Guest]: economy is.
[Guest]: And I have seen, you know, essentially projections or rather figures from the informal economy
[Guest]: constitutes around 35 to 45 percent of the GDP and around 66 to 92 percent of the jobs
[Guest]: are in the informal economy.
[Guest]: And these also includes informal jobs in the formal economy wherein, you know, there are
[Guest]: firms which report that they have an X number of jobs, but they actually have more jobs
[Amit Varma]: than that.
[Guest]: Which they don't report because of labor laws and so on.
[Guest]: Labor laws and so on and so forth.
[Guest]: So you are essentially, you know, targeting a huge part of the labor force.
[Guest]: Now let's say these firms shut down.
[Guest]: Now what happens then?
[Guest]: Obviously, there are job losses and then, you know, there is impact on consumption and
[Guest]: so on and so forth.
[Guest]: Now these are things which are not very easy to measure.
[Guest]: The second thing that is a little more obvious is that when an informal firm shuts down,
[Guest]: a smaller formal firm may decide to produce more in order to take over that business which
[Guest]: was available.
[Guest]: But again that would depend on, you know, whether it is viable for them to do so or
[Guest]: not.
[Guest]: Right.
[Guest]: So, you know, many formal firms continue to want to stay small so that they don't come
[Guest]: under the ambit of labor laws.
[Guest]: I mean, this is what we were talking.
[Guest]: Now Jagdish Bhagwati and Arvind Panagaria write in India's Chess with Destiny, the
[Guest]: cost due to labor legislations rise progressively in discrete steps at 7, 10, 20, 50 and 100
[Guest]: workers.
[Guest]: As the firm size rises from 6 regular workers towards 100, at no point between two thresholds
[Guest]: is the saving in manufacturing costs sufficiently large to pay for the extra cost of satisfying
[Guest]: these laws.
[Guest]: So, which basically means that if firms operating in the informal economy shut down, the smaller
[Guest]: formal firms may not be in a position to take over that business.
[Amit Varma]: Exactly.
[Amit Varma]: It becomes a negative sum game.
[Amit Varma]: It is not as if someone will take over that bit of the market.
[Amit Varma]: It is that the firm in the informal sector was informal because it was impossible to
[Amit Varma]: service that demand and carry out that function in a formal way because of the laws and regulations.
[Guest]: So what will happen is again, is that the formal, the bigger formal firms will now have
[Guest]: a larger chunk of the market and that will give them a better pricing power than they
[Guest]: have right now.
[Guest]: You know, a lot of the informal firms essentially ensure that the larger formal firms do not,
[Guest]: you know, go beyond a certain level when it comes to pricing their products.
[Guest]: So this is a possibility, you know, I am not saying that this is exactly the way it will
[Guest]: play out because right now, you know, there is not enough data to say so but it is a possibility
[Guest]: and it needs to be discussed and the sad part is that it is not being discussed.
[Amit Varma]: I mean to use a very loose analogy and not an exact one, if you force all chaiwalas out
[Amit Varma]: of existence, then the cheapest tea that was earlier available will simply not be available
[Amit Varma]: at all.
[Guest]: I mean, everybody cannot, you know, go to a restaurant, you know, a 30 rupee tea at
[Guest]: a restaurant, which is true.
[Amit Varma]: So how could this have been ameliorated in the design of the GST itself?
[Guest]: I mean, that is very difficult.
[Guest]: I mean, I do not think it could have been ameliorated.
[Guest]: It is a, you see, when you make such a disruptive big change, there will be a certain cost that
[Guest]: is attached to it.
[Guest]: The second thing that could have been done possibly is that, you know, the ease of doing
[Guest]: business could have been improved.
[Guest]: You could have gotten rid of a lot of these labour laws or a lot of, you know, the so-called
[Guest]: inspector raj wherein there are, you know, at least 10 odd inspectors who can come and
[Guest]: stop your business at any point of time.
[Guest]: So if an effort had been made in order to improve, you know, things at least, you know,
[Guest]: at that level, some of these informal firms would have been in a better position right
[Amit Varma]: now than they actually are.
[Amit Varma]: In fact, businessmen I speak to tell me about the fear of a new and improved inspector raj
[Amit Varma]: for the simple reason that now GST, because of all its exemptions and slabs and whatever,
[Amit Varma]: makes compliance impossible.
[Amit Varma]: Right.
[Amit Varma]: Like when I had done that episode with Devanshu, he had taken a hypothetical example of say
[Amit Varma]: there is a computer manufacturer and he is using like 30 to 300 different components
[Amit Varma]: in his computer, which he is buying from separate places.
[Amit Varma]: And many of them are very vague as to which slab they go into or whatever.
[Amit Varma]: So compliance is impossible and you leave it to the discretion of the inspector.
[Amit Varma]: He can harass you and say that, no, KitKat is not a chocolate, it's a biscuit or the
[Amit Varma]: other way around.
[Amit Varma]: And one of the expectations of the GST was that, for example, the long queues of trucks
[Amit Varma]: at state borders would gradually go down.
[Amit Varma]: And like you mentioned before the show, there's a business standard report which says that
[Amit Varma]: that's really not happening.
[Amit Varma]: Those queues are still there.
[Amit Varma]: And that friction in doing business with GST was supposed to end hasn't really happened.
[Guest]: So those queues are there not because of different reasons.
[Guest]: It's like, you know, if you want to enter Delhi, you have to, if a truck has to enter
[Guest]: Delhi, it now needs to pay a green tax as well.
[Guest]: So you know, a lot of taxes have been subsumed under the GST, but there are still other things
[Amit Varma]: that… So if you don't subsume, all of them is kind
[Amit Varma]: of pointless.
[Guest]: Yes.
[Guest]: So if you like, you know, the other great example is Gujarat.
[Guest]: If you want to enter Gujarat, they'll check whether, you know, there's liquor in the
[Guest]: truck or not.
[Guest]: So there are these, I mean, little things which are there, which do hamper the, you
[Guest]: know, smooth movement of trucks.
[Guest]: But having said that, I mean, things are a little better than they were in the past.
[Guest]: Now, you know, you were talking about KitKat, whether it's a biscuit or a chocolate.
[Guest]: There was a news report in the Times of India, which essentially quotes a supermarket chain
[Guest]: owner as saying, tax on snacks like aloo bhujiya, potato chips, samosa, kachori is 12%.
[Guest]: Now the tax rate for cashews is 5%.
[Guest]: But I can't figure out if masala cashew is a snack or a standalone item.
[Guest]: So similar issues have cropped up when it comes to sweets.
[Guest]: Milk sweets come under 5% bracket, but the moment a silver foil is put onto it, the tax
[Guest]: shoots up to 18%.
[Amit Varma]: Wow.
[Guest]: Why is that?
[Amit Varma]: I have no idea.
[Amit Varma]: Tax on silver.
[Guest]: So it's like, you know, whether a particular brand of coconut oil is a cooking oil or
[Amit Varma]: a hair oil.
[Amit Varma]: And the bizarre thing is that A, these become levers with which government inspectors can
[Amit Varma]: harass you and extort bribes, which is essentially the whole point of government inspectors.
[Amit Varma]: And this is what GST was supposed to avoid.
[Amit Varma]: You have one tax for G goods, one tax for S services, and that's it.
[Amit Varma]: You don't have to try and figure out whether this is a chocolate or a bar of gold or whatever
[Amit Varma]: it might be, you know, and, you know, you might have 0% on some items which you want
[Amit Varma]: to exempt and a particularly high GST on cigarettes or whatever sinful items.
[Amit Varma]: But otherwise, essentially everything is one rate.
[Amit Varma]: And that isn't the case, which seems to me to defeat the purpose, because the transaction
[Amit Varma]: cost for the economy of shifting from one system to the other seems to me to be huge.
[Amit Varma]: And that involves, it would seem from what you're saying about the informal sector as
[Amit Varma]: well, a huge humanitarian cost.
[Guest]: I mean that, I guess we'll figure out over a period of time how that plays out.
[Amit Varma]: So tell me, sorry to interrupt you.
[Amit Varma]: You spoke about earlier the problem of measuring the impact on the informal sector.
[Amit Varma]: And we saw this even after demonetization, where the informal sector was expected to
[Amit Varma]: be worst hit.
[Amit Varma]: But there were constantly disputes over the numbers and some people actually...
[Guest]: No, so that was because what happens is when you calculate the GDP, what they do is because
[Guest]: they don't have numbers for the informal sector, they measure the formal sector, and then they
[Guest]: assume that the informal sector is a certain proportion of the formal sector.
[Guest]: So that is essentially a statistical quirk, which is essentially used to calculate the
[Guest]: GDP.
[Guest]: So what happened there was because nobody measured the impact on the informal sector,
[Amit Varma]: there was no impact on the GDP.
[Amit Varma]: Which is like the tree falling in a forest, if no one is there to see it, did it fall?
[Guest]: It did fall, yeah.
[Guest]: In fact, there are a lot of other issues also, which these multiple rates have raised.
[Guest]: In the sense that a lot of, you know, I mean, take something like diamonds, okay, now diamonds
[Guest]: have been, the GST on diamonds is 0.25%, whereas the GST on matchsticks, which are, you know,
[Amit Varma]: a lot more useful than diamonds are, is 5%.
[Amit Varma]: Different kinds of carbon involved.
[Guest]: That's bizarre, I mean, I don't see any reason as to why, you know, the GST on diamonds has
[Guest]: to be so low.
[Guest]: People might say that this is probably because, you know, we sort of import and then export
[Guest]: a lot of diamonds.
[Guest]: So, you know, in order to ensure that India's diamond industry remains competitive globally,
[Guest]: the rates are low.
[Guest]: But then, I mean, so when you have these multiple rates, it raises all these questions.
[Guest]: So you have, you know, the GST on condoms is 0%, whereas the GST on sanitary napkins
[Guest]: is 12%.
[Guest]: Now, the explanation for this is that the GST Council, which essentially decided on
[Guest]: these rates, their objective was to achieve what they call the best fitment, which essentially
[Guest]: means is that they had to ensure that the GST rate on a product was close to the overall
[Guest]: taxes on that product that were there till that point of time.
[Guest]: Having said that, you know, when you look at the, you know, people who formed a part
[Guest]: of the GST Council, I mean, it included the finance minister of India and, you know, finance
[Guest]: minister of all the states, I mean, they could have done a little better than this.
[Amit Varma]: I mean, the best fitment, the phrase in the context of condoms is, and I'm sure the council
[Amit Varma]: in question was mostly men, which is one criticism.
[Guest]: In fact, they were all men, I'm sure.
[Amit Varma]: But you know, at some level, that's also a diversion when you start arguing about, oh,
[Guest]: X is so much and Y is so much.
[Amit Varma]: My point is, the whole point is that it's not about what should be what rate, it is
[Guest]: that they should all be one rate.
[Guest]: That point is well taken.
[Guest]: I am making another point.
[Guest]: My point is, if you have different rates, at least, you know, look into what should
[Amit Varma]: be at what rate.
[Amit Varma]: And the another consequence within the political economy of having different rates is that
[Amit Varma]: then you can give favoured rates to favoured interest groups and, you know, the political
[Guest]: corruption just goes up massively.
[Guest]: I mean, that will always be there, I mean, you really cannot do much about it.
[Guest]: I mean, take the fact that real estate does not come under GST.
[Guest]: And we shall discuss that in a future episode.
[Amit Varma]: Vivek, thanks so much for coming on the show.
[Amit Varma]: And GST, I suspect, is a subject we will again revisit a few months from now.
[Guest]: I mean, this will practically, you know, it will keep coming back.
[Amit Varma]: It's going to be a recurring theme.
[Guest]: Thanks a lot, Vivek.
[Guest]: Thanks for having me on.
[Amit Varma]: If you enjoyed listening to this episode, check out our previous episode on GST.
[Amit Varma]: In fact, check out all our previous episodes at seenunseen.in.
[Amit Varma]: You can follow Vivek on Twitter at call underscore Vivek.
[Amit Varma]: And you can buy his books at your local online or offline retailer.
[Amit Varma]: His Easy Money Trilogy demystifies the history and usage of money.
[Amit Varma]: And his latest book is called India's Big Government.
[Amit Varma]: You can follow me on Twitter at Amit Verma or AMITVARMA.
[Amit Varma]: Goodbye for now.
[Amit Varma]: If you enjoyed listening to the Seen and the Unseen, check out another great show by IVM
[Amit Varma]: Podcasts, Made in India, hosted by my friend May Thomas, where every week she profiles
[Amit Varma]: up-and-coming independent Indian bands.
[Amit Varma]: You can download it on any podcasting networks.
[Amit Varma]: Excuse me, bhaiya.
[Unknown]: Excuse me.
[Unknown]: Bole, madam.
[Unknown]: Menu mein kya hai?
[Unknown]: Menu mein Seen Unseen hai, Podcast hai, On Course hai, Cyrus Says hai, Made in India,
[Unknown]: Rediscovery Project, Empowering Series, Sex Wax hai, IVM Likes hai, Simplified hai, Keeping
[Unknown]: It Queer hai, Tings and Destinations hai, My Neighbour Zuckerberg hai, aur The Fan Garage
[Unknown]: hai.
[Unknown]: Aapko kya chahiye hai?
[Unknown]: Ek baar repeat kar denge kya?
[Unknown]: Repeat-repeat nahi karta hum.
[Unknown]: Aap jao IVMPodcast.com pe aur suno yeh sab.
[Unknown]: Ya phir download karo unka app.
[Unknown]: Hum aapke ungliyon pe.